ACTIAN CORPORATION

THIS CLICK-THROUGH LICENSE AGREEMENT (THE "AGREEMENT"), 
IS ENTERED INTO BY AND BETWEEN ACTIAN CORPORATION 
("LICENSOR") AND YOU, AND ESTABLISHES A LICENSE TO YOU 
TO USE CERTAIN SOFTWARE OF LICENSOR ("PROGRAM 
MATERIALS").  IF YOU ARE ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT 
ON BEHALF OF A COMPANY OR AN ENTITY, YOU REPRESENT 
THAT YOU ARE THE EMPLOYEE OR AGENT OF SUCH COMPANY 
OR ENTITY AND THAT YOU HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO 
THIS AGREEMENT AND LEGALLY BIND YOUR COMPANY OR ENTITY. 
BY USING THE PROGRAM MATERIALS OR CLICKING ON THE 
"I ACCEPT" BUTTON BELOW (OR TYPING "Y" OR "YES" IF YOU 
ARE INSTEAD ASKED FOR A "Y OR N" RESPONSE), YOU 
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ, UNDERSTOOD, AND AGREE 
TO BE BOUND BY ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS 
AGREEMENT.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO ALL OF THE TERMS AND 
CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, LICENSOR SHALL NOT 
LICENSE THE PROGRAM MATERIALS TO YOU, AND YOU MUST 
CLICK ON THE "DECLINE" OR "I DO NOT ACCEPT" BUTTON 
BELOW (OR TYPE "N" OR "NO" IF YOU ARE INSTEAD ASKED FOR 
A "Y OR N" RESPONSE) AND DESTROY OR RETURN ANY PROGRAM 
MATERIALS. FOR PURPOSES OF THIS AGREEMENT, "CUSTOMER" 
INCLUDES YOU AND ANY OF YOUR COMPANIES OR ENTITIES 
THAT YOU HAVE BOUND UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.

1.  PROGRAM MATERIALS.  "Program Materials" means the 
object code version of the computer software 
delivered to Customer by Licensor in connection with 
this Agreement, including Documentation.  
"Documentation" means any and all related user manuals, 
technical documentation, configuration specifications 
and training materials.  Program Materials may be 
amended from time to time by Licensor.  

2.  LICENSE.  Licensor hereby grants to Customer a 
royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-sub-licensable, 
non-transferable license without license fees to 
reproduce and use the Program Materials internally, 
in accordance with the terms and non-disclosure 
requirements contained herein.

3.  LIMITATION ON USE.  As a condition of the license 
granted above, Customer shall not: (i) license, 
distribute, sublicense, lease, rent, loan, encumber, 
assign, sell or otherwise transfer or remarket the 
Program Materials to any third parties; (ii) reverse 
engineer, reverse compile, de-compile, or disassemble 
the object code or otherwise attempt to derive the 
source code for any of the Program Materials; 
(iii) modify the Program Materials; (iv) use Program 
Materials to provide or operate hosting or Application 
Service Provider (ASP) services, service bureau, 
marketing, training, outsourcing services, or consulting 
services, or any other commercial service; (v) use 
Program Materials to develop a product which is 
competitive with any of the software programs 
manufactured and/or marketed by Licensor; (vi) permit 
third-party access to, or use of, the Program Materials; 
or (vii) alter, remove or violate any of Licensor's or 
its licensors' copyrights, trade secrets or other 
proprietary rights related to the Program Materials.

4.  NO WARRANTIES.  THE PROGRAM MATERIALS ARE PROVIDED 
TO CUSTOMER STRICTLY ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND 
LICENSOR HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES AND CONDITIONS, 
WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. 
LICENSOR DOES NOT WARRANT THAT ANY PROGRAM MATERIALS 
WILL BE PROVIDED ERROR FREE, WILL OPERATE WITHOUT 
INTERRUPTION OR THAT ANY PROGRAM MATERIALS WILL FULFILL 
CUSTOMER'S REQUIREMENTS.  TO THE EXTENT THAT LICENSOR 
CANNOT DISCLAIM ANY SUCH WARRANTY AS A MATTER OF 
APPLICABLE LAW, THE SCOPE AND DURATION OF SUCH WARRANTY 
WILL BE THE MINIMUM REQUIRED UNDER SUCH LAW.

5.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT 
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL 
LICENSOR OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, 
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR EXEMPLARY 
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF, OR RELATED TO, THE PROGRAM 
MATERIALS OR THIS AGREEMENT, HOWEVER CAUSED AND UNDER 
ANY LEGAL THEORY, AND INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, 
LOST PROFITS, DATA, REVENUE OR GOODWILL, OR BUSINESS 
INTERRUPTION, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF, 
KNOWS OF, OR SHOULD HAVE KNOWN OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
SUCH DAMAGES.  LICENSOR'S AND ITS LICENSORS' TOTAL 
CUMULATIVE LIABILITY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THE 
PROGRAM MATERIALS OR THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER IN 
CONTRACT, TORT, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, WILL NOT 
EXCEED ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100).  THE PARTIES 
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THIS SECTION 5 REFLECTS THE AGREED 
UPON ALLOCATION OF RISK BETWEEN THE PARTIES.  

6.  TERMINATION.  This Agreement is effective until 
terminated. Customer may terminate this Agreement at 
any time by destroying all copies of the Program 
Materials. This Agreement will terminate immediately 
without notice from Licensor if Customer fails to 
comply with any provision of this Agreement. Either 
party may terminate this Agreement immediately should 
any Program Materials become, or in either party's 
opinion be likely to become, the subject of a claim of 
infringement or misappropriation of any intellectual 
property right. Upon termination, Customer must 
destroy all copies of the Program Materials. Sections 
1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 15 and 16 shall 
survive termination or expiration of this Agreement.  

7.  PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.  The Program Materials 
are licensed to Customer, not sold, and title to the 
Program Materials and all associated intellectual 
property rights is retained by Licensor and its 
licensors. 

8.  CONFIDENTIALITY.  Customer agrees that the Program 
Materials, and any other information, technical data, 
or know-how related to the Program Materials (including 
working papers), is Confidential Information of 
Licensor and its licensors.  "Confidential Information" 
will not include any such information, technical data, 
or know-how which: (i) is already or otherwise becomes 
publicly known, not as a result of any action or 
inaction of the Customer; or (ii) is rightfully in the 
Customer's possession without a duty of confidentiality, 
prior to disclosure by Licensor, as can be shown by the 
files and records of Customer immediately prior to 
disclosure. Customer agrees not to use or disclose any 
Confidential Information except as expressly permitted 
by this Agreement, and to protect the confidentiality 
of all Confidential Information and to take the same 
steps to prevent unauthorized disclosure or 
unauthorized use of the Confidential Information as 
Customer takes with its own confidential information 
(and in no event less than those actions standard in 
Customer's industry).

9. EXPORT CONTROLS.  Customer acknowledges and agrees 
that the downloading, exporting or re-exporting of the 
Program Materials, either directly or indirectly and 
via any means, including electronic transfer, must be 
in compliance with the U.S. Export Administration 
Regulations and the laws of host countries, and Customer 
will comply strictly with all such laws and regulations. 
Licensor assumes no responsibility or liability for 
Customer's failure to obtain any necessary export 
approvals. Specifically, no Program Materials may be 
downloaded or exported to Cuba, Iran, North Korea, 
Sudan, and Syria, or to any other embargoed or otherwise 
restricted countries or end-users.  By downloading or 
using the Program Materials, Customer agrees to the 
foregoing and represents and warrants that a) Customer 
is not located in, under the control of, or a national 
or resident of any such country; b) Customer is not on 
any of the restricted lists including U.S. Bureau of 
Industry and Security Denied Parties List or Entity 
List, or the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control List 
of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons, 
or any similar lists maintained by other countries, and 
Customer will not export to anyone on such lists without 
the necessary export licenses.  

10.  NOTICES.  All notices to Licensor under this 
Agreement must be delivered in writing in person, by 
courier or by certified or registered mail (postage 
prepaid and return receipt requested) at the following 
address and will be effective upon receipt: 2300 Geng 
Rd., Suite 150, Palo Alto, CA 94303, U.S.A.  To be 
effective, such notice must be delivered to both 
(a) the legal department and (b) the Chief Executive 
Officer.   Customer agrees that Licensor may provide 
notice to Customer electronically via e-mail or by 
posting the notice on the website at which this 
Agreement or the Program Materials were made available. 
Receipt of any such notice is the day that the notice 
is sent or posted by Licensor.

11.  RELATIONSHIP OF THE PARTIES; BENEFICIARIES.  The 
parties hereto are independent contractors.  Nothing 
in this Agreement shall be deemed to create an agency, 
employment, partnership, fiduciary, or joint venture 
relationship between the parties.  There are no third 
party beneficiaries to this Agreement.

12.  REMEDIES.  Except as specifically provided 
otherwise in this Agreement, the parties' rights and 
remedies under this Agreement are cumulative and 
there shall be no obligation to exercise a particular 
remedy.  In the event of a party's breach of this 
Agreement, the non-breaching party may avail itself of 
all other rights, remedies and causes of action 
available at law, in equity or otherwise. Customer 
acknowledges that the Program Materials contain 
Licensor's valuable trade secrets and proprietary 
information and that any actual or threatened disclosure 
or unauthorized use or distribution of the Program 
Materials or Confidential Information will constitute 
immediate and irreparable harm to Licensor for which 
monetary damages would be an inadequate remedy and 
entitle Licensor to immediate injunctive relief without 
the need to post a bond or show actual monetary damages.

13.  FORCE MAJEURE.  Licensor shall not be liable to 
Customer for any failure or delay in performance caused 
by reasons beyond its control.

14.  U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.  The Program Materials 
are "commercial items" as that term is defined at 
48 C.F.R. 2.101, consisting of "commercial computer 
software" and "commercial computer software 
documentation" as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 
12.212. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 
227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4, all U.S. Government end 
users acquire the Program Materials with only those 
rights set forth under this Agreement.  Any technical 
data provided that is not covered by the above 
provisions shall be deemed "technical data-commercial 
items" pursuant to 48 C.F.R. 252.227.7015(a).  Any use, 
modification, reproduction, release, performance, 
display or disclosure of such technical data shall be 
governed by the terms of 48 C.F.R. 252.227.7015(b).

15. INDEMNIFICATION. Customer agrees to indemnify 
Licensor against any and all damages, judgments, and 
costs (including reasonable attorneys' fees) arising 
out of a claim related to Customer's downloading or 
use of the Program Materials.

16.  GENERAL PROVISIONS.  Any action related to this 
Agreement, and the validity, performance, construction 
and interpretation of this Agreement shall be governed 
by applicable Federal law and the laws of the State of 
California, United States of America, excluding its 
conflicts of laws rules, as applied to agreements 
entered into in California between California 
residents.  The provisions of the United Nations 
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of 
Goods shall not apply to this Agreement. Any action or 
proceeding arising from or relating to this Agreement 
must be brought exclusively in a federal court in the 
Northern District of California, or in a state court 
in San Mateo County, California, and each party submits 
irrevocably to the exclusive personal jurisdiction and 
venue of any such court in any such action or 
proceeding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensor may 
enforce any judgment rendered by such court in any 
court of competent jurisdiction, and Licensor may seek 
injunctive or other equitable relief in any 
jurisdiction in order to protect its intellectual 
property rights. If any provision of this Agreement is 
held to be unenforceable, that shall not affect the 
enforceability of the remaining provisions. This 
Agreement may not be modified except in writing signed 
by a duly authorized representative of each party. 
Customer may not assign this Agreement or any right 
granted hereunder, in whole or in part, without 
Licensor's prior written consent.  This Agreement 
represents the entire agreement between the parties 
and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, 
whether written or oral, with respect to all matters 
covered in this Agreement. This Agreement is executed 
in the English language.

For inquiries please contact: Actian Corporation, 
2300 Geng Rd., Suite 150, Palo Alto, CA 94303, U.S.A.

CUSTOMER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT CUSTOMER HAS READ AND 
UNDERSTOOD THIS AGREEMENT AND HEREBY AGREES TO BE 
BOUND BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT 
BY CLICKING ON THE "ACCEPT" BUTTON BELOW (OR TYPING 
"Y" OR "YES" IF CUSTOMER IS INSTEAD ASKED FOR A "Y OR 
N" RESPONSE).

Updated July 5, 2018
